# Telemetry library

This is a library for common telemetry functionality, especially subscribers for [Tokio tracing](https://github.com/tokio-rs/tracing)
libraries.  The subscribers enable writing trace data to Jaeger, distributed tracing,
common logs and metrics destinations, etc.

Getting started is easy.  In your app:

```rust
  let config = telemetry::TelemetryConfig {
    service_name: "my_app".into(),
    ..Default::default()
  };
  telemetry::init(config);
```

### Stdout vs file output

By default, logs (but not spans) are formatted for human readability and output to stdout, with key-value tags at the end of every line.
`RUST_LOG` can be configured for custom logging output, including filtering.

By setting `log_file` in the config, one can write log output to a daily-rotated file.

### Tracing and span output

Detailed span start and end logs can be generated by defining the `json_log_output` config variable.  Note that this causes all output to be in JSON format, which is not as human-readable, so it is not enabled by default.
This output can easily be fed to backends such as ElasticSearch for indexing, alerts, aggregation, and analysis.

### Jaeger (seeing distributed traces)

To see nested spans visualized with [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io), do the following:

1. Run this to get a local Jaeger container: `docker run -d -p6831:6831/udp -p6832:6832/udp -p16686:16686 jaegertracing/all-in-one:latest`
2. Set `enable_tracing` config setting to true
3. Run your app
4. Browse to `http://localhost:16686/` and select the service you configured using `service_name`

NOTE: separate spans (which are not nested) are not connected as a single trace for now.

### Live async inspection / Tokio Console

[Tokio-console](https://github.com/tokio-rs/console) is an awesome CLI tool designed to analyze and help debug Rust apps using Tokio, in real time!  It relies on a special subscriber.

1. Build your app using a special flag: `RUSTFLAGS="--cfg tokio_unstable" cargo build`
2. Set the `tokio_console` config setting when running your app
3. Clone the console repo and `cargo run` to launch the console
